.TH TDOC 1 "January 2026" "TDOC 1.0.2" "Termux Utilities"
.SH NAME
tdoc \- Termux Doctor, diagnostic and repair utility for Termux environment

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tdoc
[\fICOMMAND\fR] [\fIOPTIONS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B TDOC
(Termux Doctor) is a diagnostic and repair utility for the Termux environment.
It scans the system for common configuration issues, missing components,
repository problems, and provides guided fixes.

TDOC is designed to be safe, transparent, and fully compatible with the
Termux package ecosystem.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B scan
Run a full Termux system scan. If the current directory is a project folder
(contains .git, Dockerfile, package.json, etc.), TDOC also automatically
runs a full code scan on the repository.

.TP
.B repo-scan
Scan the current project folder (or $HOME if not inside a project) for
syntax errors, bugs, deprecated patterns, and traceback logs across all
supported file types:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fBPython\fR (.py) — SyntaxError via py_compile
.IP \(bu 2
\fBShell/Bash\fR (.sh .bash) — syntax check via bash -n / sh -n
.IP \(bu 2
\fBPerl\fR (.pl) — syntax check via perl -c
.IP \(bu 2
\fBJavaScript\fR (.js .mjs) — syntax check via node --check
.IP \(bu 2
\fBYAML\fR (.yml .yaml) — parse check including GitHub Actions workflows
.IP \(bu 2
\fBJSON\fR (.json) — parse validation
.IP \(bu 2
\fBTOML\fR (.toml) — parse validation via tomllib
.IP \(bu 2
\fBDockerfile\fR — lint for deprecated instructions and common mistakes
.IP \(bu 2
\fBrequirements.txt\fR — unpinned deps and format errors
.IP \(bu 2
\fBMakefile\fR — TAB indentation enforcement
.IP \(bu 2
\fBMarkdown\fR (.md) — frontmatter and broken link detection
.IP \(bu 2
\fBLog files\fR (.log .out .err) — traceback/error pattern detection
.RE

.TP
.B version
Display TDOC version, codename, and build information.

.TP
.B explain
Explain detected problems and their causes.

.TP
.B fix
Attempt to fix detected issues interactively.

.TP
.B fix --preview
Show what actions would be performed without making changes.

.TP
.B fix --auto
Automatically fix detected issues without prompting.

.TP
.B report
Print raw scan results from the last system scan.

.TP
.B doctor --json
Output diagnostic information in JSON format.

.TP
.B security
Analyze repository security and configuration.

.TP
.B security --json
Output repository security analysis in JSON format.

.TP
.B update
Display instructions for updating TDOC via the Termux package manager.

.TP
.B help
Display help information.

.SH OPTIONS
Most commands do not require additional options.
Some commands support flags such as
.BR --json ,
.BR --preview ,
and
.BR --auto .

.SH FILES
.TP
.I $PREFIX/lib/tdoc/
TDOC core files.

.TP
.I $PREFIX/bin/tdoc
TDOC executable.

.TP
.I $PREFIX/share/man/man1/tdoc.1
Manual page.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.

.TP
.B 1
General error or invalid command.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Run system diagnostics:
.RS
.B tdoc status
.RE

.TP
Automatically fix detected problems:
.RS
.B tdoc fix --auto
.RE

.TP
Get JSON output for scripting:
.RS
.B tdoc doctor --json
.RE

.SH AUTHOR
TDOC Contributors.

.SH LICENSE
MIT License.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR apt (8),
.BR pkg (1),
.BR termux-change-repo (1)
